OSDOCS-19410-5 back porting most recent zero-trust docs to 4.18 PR#5 (#110970)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/zero-trust-manager-configure-endpoints.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/zero_trust_workload_identity_manager/zero-trust-manager-spire-federation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="zero-trust-manager-configure-endpoints_{context}"]
= Understanding bundle endpoint profiles

[role="_abstract"]
The bundle endpoint profile determines how your cluster exposes its trust bundle to other SPIRE deployments and how it authenticates remote clusters accessing the bundle. Choose the profile that best matches your security requirements and infrastructure.

The {zero-trust-full} supports two authentication profiles for federation:

https_spiffe:: Uses SPIFFE-based TLS authentication. The SPIRE server presents its own SVID (SPIFFE Verifiable Identity Document) to authenticate itself to remote SPIRE servers. This profile provides strong cryptographic identity verification and is ideal for federation between SPIRE deployments.

> https_web:: Uses standard Web PKI (X.509 certificates from public or private certificate Authorities). This profile supports both automatic certificate management via ACME (Let's Encrypt) and manual certificate management using tools like cert-manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https_web:: Uses standard Web PKI such as X.509 certificates from public or private certificate Authorities. This profile supports both automatic certificate management through Let's Encrypt with the ACME protocol and manual certificate management using tools like cert-manager.
```
parens

The following table summarizes the key differences between the two profiles:

[cols="2,3,3",options="header"]
|===
|Criteria
|https_spiffe
|https_web

|Authentication method

> |SPIFFE SVID (TLS)

Reviewer: need to remove parens from the table; however makes sense

Author: Done
